README.md, before:

# Mixpanel 

This package models Mixpanel data from [Fivetran's connector](https://fivetran.com/docs/applications/mixpanel). It uses the Mixpanel `event` table in the format described by [this ERD](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1WA0gCAYBy2ASlCQCPNfD1rLgyrgwRwJ_FmxTIJ1QfY8/edit#slide=id.p).

This package enables you to better understand user activity and retention through your event data. To do this, the package:
- De-duplicatates events
- Pivots out custom event properties from JSONs into an enriched events table
- Creates a daily timeline of each type of event, complete with trailing and daily metrics of user activity and retention
- Creates a monthly timeline of each type of event, complete with metrics about user activity, retention, and churn
- Aggregates events into unique user sessions, complete with metrics about event frequency and relevant fields from the session's first event
- Provides a macro to easily create an event funnel

## Models

This package contains transformation models. The primary outputs of this package are described below. Intermediate models are used to create these output models and can be found in the models/staging folder.

| **model**                | **description**                                                                                                                                |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| mixpanel_event             | Each record represents a de-duplicated Mixpanel event. This includes the default event properties collected by Mixpanel, along with any declared custom columns and event-specific properties. |
| mixpanel_daily_events             | Each record represents a day's activity for a type of event, as reflected in user metrics. These include the number of new, repeat, and returning/resurrecting users, as well as trailing 7-day and 28-day unique users. |
| mixpanel_monthly_events          | Each record represents a month of activity for a type of event, as reflected in user metrics. These include the number of new, repeat, returning/resurrecting, and churned users, as well as the total active monthly users (regardless of event type). |
| mixpanel_sessions          | Each record represents a unique user session, including metrics reflecting the frequency and type of actions taken during the session and any relevant fields from the session's first event. |

## Macros
### analyze_funnel
You can use the `analyze_funnel(event_funnel, group_by_column, conversion_criteria)` macro to produce a funnel between a given list of event types. 

It returns the following:
- The number of events and users at each step
- The overall user and event conversion % between the top of the funnel and each step
- The relative user and event conversion % between subsequent steps 
> Note: The relative order of the steps is determined by their event volume, not the order in which they are input.

The macro takes the following as arguments:
- `event_funnel`: List of event types (not case sensitive). Example: `'['play_song', 'stop_song', 'exit']`
- `group_by_column`: (Optional) A column by which you want to segment the funnel (this macro pulls data from the `mixpanel_event` model). The default value is `None`. Examaple: `group_by_column = 'country_code'`.
- `conversion_criteria`: (Optional) A `WHERE` clause that will be applied when selecting from `mixpanel_event`. Example: To limit all events in the funnel to the United States, you'd provide `conversion_criteria = 'country_code = "US"'`. To limit the events to only song play events to the US, you'd input `conversion_criteria = 'country_code = "US"' OR event_type != 'play_song'`.

## Installation Instructions
Check [dbt Hub](https://hub.getdbt.com/) for the latest installation instructions, or [read the dbt docs](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/package-management) for more information on installing packages.

## Configuration
By default, this package looks for your Mixpanel data in the `mixpanel` schema of your [target database](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/running-a-dbt-project/using-the-command-line-interface/configure-your-profile). If this is not where your Mixpanel data is, add the following configuration to your `dbt_project.yml` file:

```yml
# dbt_project.yml

...
config-version: 2

vars:
  mixpanel:
    mixpanel_database: your_database_name
    mixpanel_schema: your_schema_name 
```

### Custom Columns
By default, this package selects the [default columns collected by Mixpanel](https://help.mixpanel.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004613766-What-properties-do-Mixpanel-s-libraries-store-by-default-). However, you likely have custom properties or columns that you'd like to include in the `mixpanel_event` model.

If there are properties in the `mixpanel.event.properties` JSON blob that you'd like to pivot out into columns, add the following variable to your `dbt_project.yml` file:

```yml
# dbt_project.yml

...
config-version: 2

vars:
  mixpanel:
    event_properties_to_pivot: ['the', 'list', 'of', 'property', 'fields']
```

And if there are columns in your source `mixpanel.event` table that are not the Mixpanel default columns, add the following variable to your `dbt_project.yml` file to include them:

```yml
# dbt_project.yml

...
config-version: 2

vars:
  mixpanel:
    event_custom_columns: ['the', 'list', 'of', 'column', 'names']
```

### Event Date Range
Because of the typical volume of event data, you may want to limit this package's models to work with a recent date range of your Mixpanel data (however, note that all final models are materialized as [incremental](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/building-a-dbt-project/building-models/materializations#incremental) tables).

By default, the package looks at all events since January 1, 2010. To change this start date, add the following variable to your `dbt_project.yml` file:

```yml
# dbt_project.yml

...
config-version: 2

vars:
  mixpanel:
    date_range_start: 'yyyy-mm-dd' 
```

**Note:**: This date range will not affect the `number_of_new_users` column in the `mixpanel_daily_events` or `mixpanel_monthly_events` models. This metric will be *true* new users.

### Timeline Event Filters
There are two timeline models in this package, `mixpanel_daily_events` and `mixpanel_monthly_events`. Each timeline model aggregates activity metrics for each type of tracked event. However, you may want to place filters on all or individual events, or even completely filter out certain events. 

To filter events in these timeline models, add the following variable to your `dbt_project.yml` file. It will be applied as a `WHERE` clause when selecting from `mixpanel_event`.

```yml
# dbt_project.yml

...
config-version: 2

vars:
  mixpanel:

    # Example 1: Limit all events to the US
    timeline_criteria: 'country_code = "US"'

    # Example 2: Only limit 'play_song' events to the US
    timeline_criteria: 'event_type != "play_song" OR country_code = "US"'
```

### Session Configurations
#### Session Inactivity Timeout
This package sessionizes events based on the periods of inactivity between a user's events on a device. By default, the package will denote a new session once the period between events surpasses **30 minutes**. 

To change this timeout value, add the following variable to your `dbt_project.yml` file:

```yml
# dbt_project.yml

...
config-version: 2

vars:
  mixpanel:
    sessionization_inactivity: number_of_minutes # ex: 60
```

#### Session Pass-Through Columns
By default, the `mixpanel_sessions` model will contain the following columns from `mixpanel_event`:
- `people_id`: The ID of the user
- `device_id`: The ID of the device they used in this session
- `event_frequencies`: A JSON of the frequency of each `event_type` in the session

To pass through any additional columns from the events table to `mixpanel_sessions`, add the following variable to your `dbt_project.yml` file. The value of each field will be pulled from the first event of the session.

```yml
# dbt_project.yml

...
config-version: 2

vars:
  mixpanel:
    session_passthrough_columns: ['the', 'list', 'of', 'column', 'names'] 
```

#### Session Event Criteria
Similar to the timeline models, `mixpanel_sessions` pulls from `mixpanel_event`. You may want to disclude events or place filters on them in order to qualify for sessionization. 

To apply any filters to the events in the sessions model, add the following variable to your `dbt_project.yml` file. It will be applied as a `WHERE` clause when selecting from `mixpanel_event`.

```yml
# dbt_project.yml

...
config-version: 2

vars:
  mixpanel:

    # Limit sessions to include only these kinds of events
    session_event_criteria: 'event_type in ("play_song", "stop_song", "create_playlist")'
```

#### Session Trailing Window
Events can sometimes come late. For example, events triggered on a mobile device that is offline will be sent to Mixpanel once the device reconnects to wifi or a cell network. This makes sessionizing a bit trickier, as the sessions model (and all final models in this package) is materialized as an incremental table. 

Therefore, to avoid requiring a full refresh to incorporate these delayed events into sessions, the package by default re-sessionizes the most recent 3 hours of events on each run. To change this, add the following variable to your `dbt_project.yml` file:

```yml
# dbt_project.yml

...
config-version: 2

vars:
  mixpanel:
    sessionization_trailing_window: number_of_hours # ex: 12
```

## Contributions
Additional contributions to this package are very welcome! Please create issues
or open PRs against `master`. Check out 
[this post](https://discourse.getdbt.com/t/contributing-to-a-dbt-package/657) 
on the best workflow for contributing to a package.

## Resources:
- Provide [feedback](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/DQ7K7WW) on our existing dbt packages or what you'd like to see next
- Find all of Fivetran's pre-built dbt packages in our [dbt hub](https://hub.getdbt.com/fivetran/)
- Learn more about Fivetran [in the Fivetran docs](https://fivetran.com/docs)
- Check out [Fivetran's blog](https://fivetran.com/blog)
- Learn more about dbt [in the dbt docs](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/introduction)
- Check out [Discourse](https://discourse.getdbt.com/) for commonly asked questions and answers
- Join the [chat](http://slack.getdbt.com/) on Slack for live discussions and support
- Find [dbt events](https://events.getdbt.com) near you
- Check out [the dbt blog](https://blog.getdbt.com/) for the latest news on dbt's development and best practices

Commit message:

replace timeline filters with global event filter

README.md, after:

# Mixpanel 

This package models Mixpanel data from [Fivetran's connector](https://fivetran.com/docs/applications/mixpanel). It uses the Mixpanel `event` table in the format described by [this ERD](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1WA0gCAYBy2ASlCQCPNfD1rLgyrgwRwJ_FmxTIJ1QfY8/edit#slide=id.p).

This package enables you to better understand user activity and retention through your event data. To do this, the package:
- De-duplicatates events
- Pivots out custom event properties from JSONs into an enriched events table
- Creates a daily timeline of each type of event, complete with trailing and daily metrics of user activity and retention
- Creates a monthly timeline of each type of event, complete with metrics about user activity, retention, and churn
- Aggregates events into unique user sessions, complete with metrics about event frequency and relevant fields from the session's first event
- Provides a macro to easily create an event funnel

## Models

This package contains transformation models. The primary outputs of this package are described below. Intermediate models are used to create these output models and can be found in the models/staging folder.

| **model**                | **description**                                                                                                                                |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| mixpanel_event             | Each record represents a de-duplicated Mixpanel event. This includes the default event properties collected by Mixpanel, along with any declared custom columns and event-specific properties. |
| mixpanel_daily_events             | Each record represents a day's activity for a type of event, as reflected in user metrics. These include the number of new, repeat, and returning/resurrecting users, as well as trailing 7-day and 28-day unique users. |
| mixpanel_monthly_events          | Each record represents a month of activity for a type of event, as reflected in user metrics. These include the number of new, repeat, returning/resurrecting, and churned users, as well as the total active monthly users (regardless of event type). |
| mixpanel_sessions          | Each record represents a unique user session, including metrics reflecting the frequency and type of actions taken during the session and any relevant fields from the session's first event. |

## Macros
### analyze_funnel
You can use the `analyze_funnel(event_funnel, group_by_column, conversion_criteria)` macro to produce a funnel between a given list of event types. 

It returns the following:
- The number of events and users at each step
- The overall user and event conversion % between the top of the funnel and each step
- The relative user and event conversion % between subsequent steps 
> Note: The relative order of the steps is determined by their event volume, not the order in which they are input.

The macro takes the following as arguments:
- `event_funnel`: List of event types (not case sensitive). Example: `'['play_song', 'stop_song', 'exit']`
- `group_by_column`: (Optional) A column by which you want to segment the funnel (this macro pulls data from the `mixpanel_event` model). The default value is `None`. Examaple: `group_by_column = 'country_code'`.
- `conversion_criteria`: (Optional) A `WHERE` clause that will be applied when selecting from `mixpanel_event`. Example: To limit all events in the funnel to the United States, you'd provide `conversion_criteria = 'country_code = "US"'`. To limit the events to only song play events to the US, you'd input `conversion_criteria = 'country_code = "US"' OR event_type != 'play_song'`.

## Installation Instructions
Check [dbt Hub](https://hub.getdbt.com/) for the latest installation instructions, or [read the dbt docs](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/package-management) for more information on installing packages.

## Configuration
By default, this package looks for your Mixpanel data in the `mixpanel` schema of your [target database](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/running-a-dbt-project/using-the-command-line-interface/configure-your-profile). If this is not where your Mixpanel data is, add the following configuration to your `dbt_project.yml` file:

```yml
# dbt_project.yml

...
config-version: 2

vars:
  mixpanel:
    mixpanel_database: your_database_name
    mixpanel_schema: your_schema_name 
```

### Custom Columns
By default, this package selects the [default columns collected by Mixpanel](https://help.mixpanel.com/hc/en-us/articles/115004613766-What-properties-do-Mixpanel-s-libraries-store-by-default-). However, you likely have custom properties or columns that you'd like to include in the `mixpanel_event` model.

If there are properties in the `mixpanel.event.properties` JSON blob that you'd like to pivot out into columns, add the following variable to your `dbt_project.yml` file:

```yml
# dbt_project.yml

...
config-version: 2

vars:
  mixpanel:
    event_properties_to_pivot: ['the', 'list', 'of', 'property', 'fields']
```

And if there are columns in your source `mixpanel.event` table that are not the Mixpanel default columns, add the following variable to your `dbt_project.yml` file to include them:

```yml
# dbt_project.yml

...
config-version: 2

vars:
  mixpanel:
    event_custom_columns: ['the', 'list', 'of', 'column', 'names']
```

### Event Date Range
Because of the typical volume of event data, you may want to limit this package's models to work with a recent date range of your Mixpanel data (however, note that all final models are materialized as [incremental](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/building-a-dbt-project/building-models/materializations#incremental) tables).

By default, the package looks at all events since January 1, 2010. To change this start date, add the following variable to your `dbt_project.yml` file:

```yml
# dbt_project.yml

...
config-version: 2

vars:
  mixpanel:
    date_range_start: 'yyyy-mm-dd' 
```

**Note:**: This date range will not affect the `number_of_new_users` column in the `mixpanel_daily_events` or `mixpanel_monthly_events` models. This metric will be *true* new users.

### Global Event Filters
In addition to limiting the date range, you may want to employ other filters to remove noise from your event data. 

To apply a global filter to events (and all models in this package), add the following variable to your `dbt_project.yml` file. It will be applied as a `WHERE` clause when selecting from the source table, `mixpanel.event`. 

```yml
# dbt_project.yml

...
config-version: 2

vars:
  mixpanel:
    # Ex: removing internal users
    global_event_filter: 'distinct_id != "1234abcd"'
```

### Session Configurations
#### Session Inactivity Timeout
This package sessionizes events based on the periods of inactivity between a user's events on a device. By default, the package will denote a new session once the period between events surpasses **30 minutes**. 

To change this timeout value, add the following variable to your `dbt_project.yml` file:

```yml
# dbt_project.yml

...
config-version: 2

vars:
  mixpanel:
    sessionization_inactivity: number_of_minutes # ex: 60
```

#### Session Pass-Through Columns
By default, the `mixpanel_sessions` model will contain the following columns from `mixpanel_event`:
- `people_id`: The ID of the user
- `device_id`: The ID of the device they used in this session
- `event_frequencies`: A JSON of the frequency of each `event_type` in the session

To pass through any additional columns from the events table to `mixpanel_sessions`, add the following variable to your `dbt_project.yml` file. The value of each field will be pulled from the first event of the session.

```yml
# dbt_project.yml

...
config-version: 2

vars:
  mixpanel:
    session_passthrough_columns: ['the', 'list', 'of', 'column', 'names'] 
```

#### Session Event Criteria
Similar to the timeline models, `mixpanel_sessions` pulls from `mixpanel_event`. You may want to disclude events or place filters on them in order to qualify for sessionization. 

To apply any filters to the events in the sessions model, add the following variable to your `dbt_project.yml` file. It will be applied as a `WHERE` clause when selecting from `mixpanel_event`.

```yml
# dbt_project.yml

...
config-version: 2

vars:
  mixpanel:

    # Limit sessions to include only these kinds of events
    session_event_criteria: 'event_type in ("play_song", "stop_song", "create_playlist")'
```

#### Session Trailing Window
Events can sometimes come late. For example, events triggered on a mobile device that is offline will be sent to Mixpanel once the device reconnects to wifi or a cell network. This makes sessionizing a bit trickier, as the sessions model (and all final models in this package) is materialized as an incremental table. 

Therefore, to avoid requiring a full refresh to incorporate these delayed events into sessions, the package by default re-sessionizes the most recent 3 hours of events on each run. To change this, add the following variable to your `dbt_project.yml` file:

```yml
# dbt_project.yml

...
config-version: 2

vars:
  mixpanel:
    sessionization_trailing_window: number_of_hours # ex: 12
```

## Contributions
Additional contributions to this package are very welcome! Please create issues
or open PRs against `master`. Check out 
[this post](https://discourse.getdbt.com/t/contributing-to-a-dbt-package/657) 
on the best workflow for contributing to a package.

## Resources:
- Provide [feedback](https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/DQ7K7WW) on our existing dbt packages or what you'd like to see next
- Find all of Fivetran's pre-built dbt packages in our [dbt hub](https://hub.getdbt.com/fivetran/)
- Learn more about Fivetran [in the Fivetran docs](https://fivetran.com/docs)
- Check out [Fivetran's blog](https://fivetran.com/blog)
- Learn more about dbt [in the dbt docs](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/introduction)
- Check out [Discourse](https://discourse.getdbt.com/) for commonly asked questions and answers
- Join the [chat](http://slack.getdbt.com/) on Slack for live discussions and support
- Find [dbt events](https://events.getdbt.com) near you
- Check out [the dbt blog](https://blog.getdbt.com/) for the latest news on dbt's development and best practices
